[music] In this video, we'll take a high-level look
at SQL. SQL is a bit different from the other languages
we’ve covered so far. First off, it's formally pronounced “ess
cue el,” although some people say “sequel.” While the acronym stands for “Structured
Query Language,” many people do not consider SQL to be like other software development
languages because it's a non-procedural language and its scope is limited to querying and managing
data. While it is not a “data science” language
per se, data scientists regularly use it because it's simple and powerful! Another couple of neat facts about SQL: it's
much older than Python and R, by about 20 years, having first appeared in 1974. And, SQL was developed at IBM! This language is useful in handling structured
data; that is, the data incorporating relations among entities and variables. SQL was designed for managing data in relational
databases. Here you can see a diagram showing the general
structure of a relational database. A relational database is formed by collections
of two-dimensional tables; for example, datasets and Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. Each of these tables is then formed by a fixed
number of columns and any number of rows. BUT! Even though SQL was originally developed for
use with relational databases, because it's so pervasive and easy to use, SQL interfaces
for many NoSQL and big data repositories have also been developed. The SQL language is subdivided into several
language elements, including clauses, expressions, predicates, queries, and statements. So what makes SQL great? Knowing SQL will help you do many different
jobs in data science, including business and data analyst, and it's a must in data engineering. When performing operations with SQL, you access
the data directly. There's no need to copy it beforehand. This can speed up workflow executions considerably. SQL is the interpreter between you and the
database. SQL is an American National Standards Institute,
or "ANSI," standard, which means if you learn SQL and use it with one database, you will
be able to easily apply that SQL knowledge to many other databases. There are many different SQL databases available,
including MySQL, IBM Db2, PostgreSQL, Apache OpenOffice Base, SQLite, Oracle, MariaDB,
Microsoft SQL Server, and more. The syntax of the SQL you write might change
a little bit based on the relational database management system you’re using. If you are looking to learn SQL you would
be best served to focus on a specific relational database and then plug into the community
for that specific platform. There are also many great introductory courses
on SQL available!